okay and I'm going to record
hello and welcome to the ipfs weekly
call where we get to learn about all the
exciting projects that are happening in
the ipfs community um before we begin I
have a few housekeeping notes one please
add your name to the agenda notes that
Terri helpfully put in a chat and
sticking it sorry
Thank You Terri for taking notes for
today Terri is our hero and second
announcement so in North America
you guys already had daylight savings
time
so the ipfs weekly call if you're in
north america it'll still be the same
time but if you are in Europe then the
time will be an hour earlier so UTC time
will be 4:16 p.m. and like CET would be
17 p.m. or 5:00 p.m. and I will only be
for two weeks as of I think the last day
of March we'll go back to regular
schedule where the calls will start at
17 UTC and it'll still stay at a regular
time for North America excellent
so how further ado we will introduce our
guests for today who is Brian Hoffman
Brian Hoffman is the CEO of open bizarre
and open bizarre is a true peer-to-peer
decentralized market and so if that
Brian thank you for thank you for coming
so we have a presentation so Brian will
present and then we'll leave about five
to ten minutes for questions so let us
begin Brian hi everybody um I'll just go
ahead and share my screen since my
slides talk for themselves I guess see
okay can you guys see my screen yet or
not yet oh you know what though stairs
below okay I have too many windows open
and apparently um I'll just share the
holdup why not let's do it okay all
right yes all right great
okay so I I mean I don't know exactly
what you guys would like to know about
it but I decided just put some slides
together of things that I thought were
interesting about what we're doing with
ipfs and how maybe we're a little
different than some of the other
projects that are using IP ffs and and
then I also took a opportunity to throw
in a few gripes just to give you guys
some fodder for improving later and if
you guys have any questions you know
obviously I guess I think you take some
at the end and I'd love to answer any
that you have so just quick background
my background is in engineering even
though I'm the CEO Toby wanted to kind
of got it by default was our original
programmer for the software doing
everything and now unfortunately for me
and for the people that are actually
good programmers that's not the case as
much but my background was government
and consulting doing encrypted messaging
and identity management and things like
that for the Department of Defense
classified agencies things like that you
got a little bit of an overview of what
open Bazaar was just there in my
introduction but it's essentially an
open source project started in 2014
we're working on building a protocol and
software for e-commerce that is as
decentralized as possible and it uses
crypto currencies as the only medium of
exchange
I mean originated out of a hackathon
idea called dark market which was a
basically an idea to figure out how to
build a decentralized Silk Road
to create a free and open marketplace
for the world just a quick overview of
kind of where open Bazaar is today yeah
you know it's it's it's a DAP
technically not a theory em DAP but it's
a DAP in our minds and you know even
before that you you know the term DAP
existed we currently get about 400 to
600 new open Bazaar nodes on our network
daily we've had almost a hundred and
sixty thousand nodes created on the
network since our second version which
was the end of 2007 and just for
clarification a node is someone who's
running is installed and run the open
Bazaar software which runs ipfs
underneath so technically those are also
ipfs nodes we get ten to the thousands
of searches for products and services
each day and we have over 10,000
visitors to open Bazaar properties daily
which is our website and and our comm
which is utilizes an IP FS gateway to
serve up dynamic content if you're
browsing from the web as well as hitting
our search services so here's a quick
timeline of open Bazaar we started back
in 2014 wasn't based on anything close
to FS at that time actually started out
as a couple 0 mq nodes talking to each
other and was not very scalable and we
quickly changed that network created a
1.0 but we're ipfs enters the the
conversation was probably late 2016 when
we decided to rewrite the entire thing
on top of Lib p2p and ipfs and we
launched that towards the end of 2017
and there's a couple of other notable
things on here the open Bazaar calm went
live early last year which you know
pretty much just is a read-only version
of our network it just uses our gateway
our ipfs gateway to serve up
content so that people can search and
and browse the marketplace without
downloading the software and then if
they want to purchase something they can
download our app and and do a so in the
app and on the horizon we have something
called Haven which is our mobile version
of Oakland bizarre and and then later
we're going to be moving towards a
web-based open Bazaar which is kind of
our holy grail that we'd like to use JSI
PFS for at some point so hoping was our
version one we built it in Python we
rolled our own peer-to-peer protocol so
it was a very very basic udp-based
network that we we built we extended it
to be reliable UDP so that we could
punch through firewalls and get to home
routers as best we could I was very
unreliable
it wasn't very flexible it was
definitely one of the biggest
problematic pieces of our first
architecture it also required users to
be online in order to to buy and sell
things we didn't really have any kind of
methodology for storing content in the
DHT in in any kind of reliable way and
it was it was just not it's not a great
experience especially for for merchants
who who wanted to come online and you
know offer up something to sell and then
they want and then it would close the
app and and then the product would not
be available to purchased because they
weren't on the network so that was
obviously something we wanted to fixed
and and then we also had a lot of
requests for implementing an anonymity
services either ITP or tor and the way
that our network was so homegrown it
just it wasn't conducive to us
integrating any kind of tour so that was
like a big knock on what we were doing
as well so we decided to scrap that
after looking at some alternatives and
coming across idea fest so version 2 we
you know we were looking
a couple alternatives to our own
peer-to-peer network keen things like
mainline DHT and using the BitTorrent
Network and some others made safe and a
few others but ultimately we wanted to
use btcd which was a Bitcoin wallet
stack it was written and go ipfs was
written and go we felt like that was a
pretty strong language for building
cross-platform software and so we just
decided to make the jump from Python to
go and adopt ipfs it made sense so we
ended up rewriting all of the
marketplace logic and go and
incorporating ipfs and the p2p for our
data storage layer and networking we
actually created our own onion transport
and contribute that back to you guys so
that people could use that as one of the
transport options for the PGP and then
we built something kind of clever on top
of ipfs using an offline messaging layer
so that allowed us to do two things for
open Bazaar one when people wanted to
create listings or make purchases from
storefronts they can store the orders
temporarily within the network using our
offline messaging layer and also if they
wanted to send chat messages to each
other they could do that in an offline
way so that the recipients didn't need
to be online all the time when they came
back online they would retrieve all the
messages they had missed from from my
PFS and and keep going and then we also
adopted IP NS for our naming system so
prior to that we kind of had peer IDs or
our version of peer IDs and we mapped
them to like block stack IDs and a
couple other things in our first version
it was kind of clunky so we just kind of
moved to IP NS and one thing we're
hoping in the future is that wil will
allow people to map some other things to
to the IP NS addresses because they're a
little bit cumbersome obviously to
remember or type
so what makes our network a little bit
different than the standard ipfs network
well for one thing we use a fork of the
ipfs network so early on when we were
looking at ipfs and we wanted to
implement the offline storage concept we
knew that one day was probably not going
to cut it in terms of storing things
therefore for offline support that meant
that you know obviously this stuff was
going to get expunged quicker than we
wanted and so that was one of the main
impetus is for for modifying the the
standard ipfs Network I have actually
spoken to several other people that are
looking to build an IP FS that have
different needs in that respect so I
know I I spoke with one when I was in
Germany last week and we discussed the
ability to maybe flexibly be able to
change that that would be great we also
wanted to make sure that our network was
super reliable and quickly accessed so
we built some custom indexers that crawl
the entire network we can actually crawl
our entire Bazaar network in a couple
minutes and we do so and and we put it
into elasticsearch and you build a
search engine off of that which allows
us to do all kinds of different
manipulation of that data and query
what's available on the network at any
given time and provide caching so we
have a search endpoint then you can
search for listings search for users
search for all kinds of different stuff
and we also just recently we we also
create IP NS indexes so that you don't
have to make ipfs crawls if you don't
want to to to get IP NS records resolved
and and that's that's something we built
in particular for our mobile app which
we're okay with being slightly more
centralized than our open Bazaar desktop
nodes
and then we have gateways which we've
kind of modified to be our super nodes
and so what we do is we make sure that
our nodes when they publish any kind of
data to ipfs that we automatically send
it to our super nodes as well so that
they will be seeding the content from
the from the get-go so that's something
that we we maintain to make sure that
all the content is available this is
kind of a very high level diagram of
what's kind of occurring in our
architecture so we have on the left side
of the line I can't point to it for you
but you can see it you know we have
users using an open Bazaar and they're
there talking through a front-end client
whether that's the mobile app or the
desktop app and then we have a whole
architecture over there that that talks
to the swarm we have our seed nodes we
have our indexers we have our search we
have a couple other items in there and
also we have a test net that's available
that you can connect to and and then
behind that we have a bunch of VPS
backends we're currently moving all of
our stuff to Amazon but we're also in
digitalocean this is a very fun diagram
of how complex our search architecture
is so this is this is our architecture
for what we used to crawl the network
and actually provide gateways services
and search so you can see we have a test
net and we have a main net and yeah it's
extremely reliable and we have to have
it up all the time so you know how are
we using IP FS with an app like what are
users experiencing so on this screen
what you're seeing is are kind of our
profile view or storefront view for
users within the desktop app people
address access their storefronts through
an OB address which is basically if you
look closely you can see it's a ob :
/ / and then the the IP NS name / a path
that we've created as custom for open
Bazaar that's how they get to their
stores you know this is this is so that
we can have a static address to get to
just like you would a website and and we
serve up the content via IP FS so all
the images you're seeing everything
other than like the display template is
all coming getting served up through
ipfs through hashes so what will happen
is when you access the store you'll pull
down their profile JSON from my ipfs and
within that egg has a bunch of hashes of
different content for the images and all
that stuff and it goes out retrieves
that in real time and pulls that into
the view we've kind of bastardized ipfs
data directory a little bit if you look
at a normal I Pfister ipfs directory you
only see about I think maybe six of
those items in there for us we had we've
added logging we have a an out box
folder which is where we we store
offline messaging that I spoke about
earlier if they're using tor then we set
up a hidden service for them and keep
their keys in there and we also have to
keep track of which version of open
Bazaar they're on so that we can migrate
them up and down when they upgrade and
and then also in the root folder that we
we pin to to ipfs that's where all their
information about their open bizarre
store is so you can see a profile JSON
followers and the followers were in the
JSON
if listings posts which is like social
posts like you can do like Twitter posts
or blog posts within their different
things so what happens when people
update their profile within our app well
behind the scenes in terms of ipfs the
user will save their profile our OB
server pushed as the data to those the
seed nodes that I talked about the ones
that are always available
it basically sends them in at a command
a special command and those gateways
that are programmed to understand that
and know that they need to request the
data back from from the publishing node
and then they seed it that way so we
kind of force them to access our content
on demand and then they become cedars of
our content and then we move on to
publish to IPs and and then eventually
since it's an IP NS our gateways index
that content and make it accessible
there so a couple things to note things
that we've observed is that one RI PMS
publishers are pretty slow and this is
something we struggle with a lot and I
don't I don't know if this is really an
anomaly I think it's just kind of the
nature of the beast here right now but
our publishers actually take between one
six minutes mostly between one and two
minutes retrieving ipfs content though
is super fast and we're actually looking
to implement something within our app to
do smart so so I mentioned earlier in
the presentation that we've got we now
have our crawler indexing the IP NS
publishing in it it does that so that we
don't have to make IP n s calls all the
time for certain content and so we have
a we request the data via IP FS first
and then we go in the background we kind
of look at I P NS to see if that content
is needs to be refreshed and then we we
do that if it does need to be updated we
kind of refresh the view later so that
the UX is much better and then we're
also looking at alternative tiered
routing options so that we're not
completely reliant on the DHT we might
we want to have another option to maybe
have like a HTTP in HTTP into point
where we can request data quicker than
go into the DHT something we're
currently building some more of our
future plans we really would like to get
off of a fork
every time I PFS updates we have to go
through a real lengthy rebase and
testing process so that we can get all
the goodies from the new version and
we have an issue on github that we've
shared with the team with your team to
track what we need to do to get off that
fork and it's kind of in the weeds I
won't really go into that right now but
if you're interested I'd be glad to
share that link but that would allow us
to you know upgrade much more quickly I
think we were on in point oh point 4.15
like four I mean we've been on that
until like maybe no actually we haven't
even up
we haven't even released 0.4 0.8 een
which is what we're rebasing right now
so it's been a long long time and 19 is
already out so it's getting more
difficult so one new thing that I
thought I'd be interesting to share with
you guys is this this app is not out yet
we're in the final stages of getting
this done and so we get it released is
our mobile app called Haven and it
actually runs the exact same code as the
desktop on the device so it's a complete
full ipfs node on mobile device we
cross-compile ipfs and open bazaar into
a armed binary and we run it on the
device just like we do on the desktop
and so there's no need for having you
know it's not talking to a centralized
server or anything it's actually
connecting to the peer-to-peer network
directly through mobile and you know
these are kind of the four pivotal areas
that we want to accomplish with the
mobile app which is like we're a lot of
people to shop to do secure Hinda in
encrypted chat they have a multi
currency wallet and then the now I'll
have social post so it's like a social
network built on top of IP FS so you can
like and and post and and start
conversation threads on the content just
it's basically like a decentralized
Twitter built into the app uses IP FS
behind the scenes for that so what are
some of the things that we've found
running ipfs on the mobile device one
mobile devices have no inbound
connections so we really really really
want to upgrade to 0.40 point 18 and
hopefully 0.4 0.9
so that we could take advantage of
circuit relays and relaying so that you
know notes can connect to each other
right now what happens is like every
communication is like an offline message
so we have to like we can't connect to a
node because they're like they don't
take inbound connections and then we
have to publish to the DHT as an offline
message and then that other node has to
pull from you know the the DHT to find
out if it has a message so if you're
chatting with somebody it's like very
high latency it's not good circuit relay
with our testing of the rebase it's like
instant it's like real-time it's really
really great so we want to move to that
as soon as possible resource usage
obviously it's on a mobile device so you
know we're running desktop code on the
mobile device and we're working to like
optimize that better but bootstrapping
and publishing on the device is really
slow and it's not a great user
experience right now so trying to figure
out what we're gonna do about that and
we'd really like to move to JSF BFS at
some point we're already starting to
build out our web version of open Bazaar
and at some point when we we've done
that and completed that we hope to roll
that into the mobile app and kind of
replace the and deprecated the golang
version we think it'll be much more
efficient so I don't really have
anything else to talk about I mean
there's probably a lot of questions you
may be have or there's probably a lot
more to talk about but I want to like
talk for an hour here for you guys just
thought I'd give you some some initial
thoughts of our experience with it and
we've been working with it for years now
so we really really love the software
really really happy to be like
partnering with you guys and using you
guys and so you know if there's anything
we can do to help you guys or vice versa
we're definitely down with that and
thanks
yay it's a great presentation thank you
very much Brian um let's get the
questions if you have a question if you
could please put it into the chat
they'll be great and I'll read it out
loud so first question from Johnny
crunch are you compiling go to arm yes
yeah we use X go and so basically when
we we we finish a release we tag it and
we have like our continuous integration
server basically cross compiles it into
all those binaries and it automatically
dumps it into github and so that's how
we do it and then are you wrapping that
at all with another software yeah so on
iOS we we wrap it and create like a
bridge and on Android I believe it's
somewhere concept but yeah we create a
bridge library so that we can talk to
the server daemon through iOS yeah and
what's the wrapping I'm not sure I'm not
the one who wrote it um I might have to
get that for you I forget it yeah I
believe is the same one that yet theory
amuses for there demon if you're
familiar with that but I can actually
share it next question from Ellen Shaw
what are the main blockers stopping you
from moving to using j/s IPSS I mean
first and foremost it's just that we
haven't really tested that thoroughly we
have some initial experiments that we've
done with it we we were very heavily
reliant on I pianists and DHT and that's
something that's been pretty new to the
Jos ipfs I think it just recently got
merged and so we're trying to test that
out we've had some challenges with it
getting it to work at least in the
context that we're using it and but you
know it's a very fluid thing we like
really just started heavily working on
it
next question buddy would a pump sell
based on IP and s be sufficient or do
you require offline DHT support well one
of the issues that we've had with
pub/sub is that you have to be
subscribed to it to get the to get the
calls in the way that our users use IP
NS is they're accessing a lot of nodes
that they'd never known about so that
first contact is always slow no matter
what but then the subsequent I pianist
publishes or like real-time so I mean
imagine you're browsing through the
store like every every storefront you're
clicking to look at is a new IP NS
resolution and that's just slow so it
doesn't necessarily help us as much as
it would seem another question from
Johnny crunch regarding how to handle
the authenticity of goods yeah so for
instance I just searched for Scotch
though so there's a 25 year old Macallan
Scotch that actually looks really good
on open Bazaar but the challenge is like
are you helping or aiding any of the
software for the certifying the
authenticity into those or are you
relying totally on the vendors to be on
yes so so so we are relying on the
vendors we have implemented a program
called the verified moderators program
so in this case what happens is you know
in opens or in general the way it works
is there's like it there's three parties
there's the buyer and the seller and
then there's a dispute resolution person
called a moderator so we use like an
escrow account so if you buy something
for someone you put your cryptocurrency
into the escrow account and then the
merchant ships to the good and when
you're happy and satisfied you release
the funds to the merchant in their hat
you know that's it if there's a problem
a third person can step in and help you
know deal with the dispute so in terms
of like authenticity the likelihood
would be that you would get the Scotch
and you'd be like this is this is not
right and you would file a dispute and
then you guys would have to hash it out
now the question that arises from that
is like okay now can you drink can you
trust the moderator can you trust a
dispute person
and so we've opened up a verified
moderators program where we do a little
bit of higher level of vetting of those
people so obi-wan does kind of work with
those folks to like help them mediate
those disputes if possible but only for
a small amount of the moderators and
you're not forced to use that it's just
the added value program but we generally
try to stay away from the from the you
know hand-holding in any of the
transactions because it's open and you
know we just don't want to expose
ourselves to legal liability at this
point but yeah it's it's a challenge and
it's still not a perfect path and we
have a lot of the similar issues that
existing marketplaces have we are going
to go slightly over so I will read the
last two questions but we are at time so
if you have another beanie just letting
you know that we are going to go over
today
addy have you considered using D IDs for
social identifiers x' d IDs and D IDs
for social no we we haven't we haven't
not that one in particular we we've got
like a library that we did where you can
publish to the dns so you could use DNS
names to resolve your storefront you're
like if you have Brian store comm
already you can put a txt record in your
DNS and you can use that we also still
support block stack IDs and ENS but we
haven't looked into D ID I'm not not
familiar with that ones and final
question from Molly but a tour and
private browsing what are the
expectations of OB users in terms of
privacy do you do anything special
around ipfs to add more security
guarantees other than the onion
transport No so basically if you're
running tor browser when you fire up
open visit aria will detect that and ask
you if you want to route through tor
before you connect to the network and if
you do then it just relics that do that
onion transport but we don't do anything
above and beyond that for privacy so I
mean just
just to be clear we haven't done a
security audit on open Bazaar either so
we don't promise that that there aren't
leaks in fact we probably have an Open
DNS leak I think at this point that
we're trying to resolve but we hope to
do that in the coming year it's a very
expensive and cumbersome fraud path so
we haven't done it until we're really
happy with the state of the network but
uh yeah and short no we haven't done
anything above and beyond that well
thank you very much Brian for sharing
your time your slide and your insights
you look really good
thank you for having me yeah sorry about
the last time I got the time zone right
this time no worries so speaking about
time zone thank you for our European
viewers the next two weeks the ipfs
weekly call will be an hour early the
last week of March I believe is when
we'll go back to the regular time thank
you very much and I will see you next
week
take care